Social networking involves the usage of different types of graphs for carrying out investigation and deriving results.
Different scenarios call for different graph layouts that possess the ability to visualize and understand networks as per some specific requirements. For e.g.
a graph plotted for community detection may require a different layout compared to a graph plotted for analyzing a user's personal traits. 
Separate layouts are made to suit specific purposes in the study of social network interactions.

Python-igraphs library provides us with various graph layout algorithms. 
Refer to - http://igraph.org/python/doc/tutorial/tutorial.html

The Layouts Info directory of this repository consists of images of graphs drawn using distinct python-igraphs layout algorithms.
We notice that although these algorithms are effective, they sometimes fail to provide us with clean, aesthetically-pleasing and comprehensible plots.
As the nodes and edges increase, these layout algorithms contribute to further disarrangement in the figures.

This is where Gephi comes to the rescue. Gephi is a graph visualization and manipulation software. Most layouts provided by Gephi are clear, intelligible and clutter-free. It also has functionalities
for setting properties within a layout, scale factor, running dynamic layouts etc. Graphs can also be analyzed using Gephi to
obtain various results. However, unlike python-igraphs which requires a graph object (generated using igraphs itself) for plotting graphs with different layouts, Gephi
can accept - GEXF, CSV, GraphML, GDF, Spreadsheet, Pajek, GraphViz amongst many other formats.
Gephi's acceptance of Pajek makes our life easier as we can simply generate the Pajek format of a graph object using igraphs and later import it to Gephi.

Notice the difference between Gephi_Fruchterman_Reingold.png and the ones plotted using python-igraphs(including fr layout). The distinction is remarkable!

Of note is that if we have lesser nodes and edges, python-igraphs also successfully provides effectual layouts. 

